Dear Madam or Sir,

I would like to be considered for the Staff Designer, Product Design role at GitHub in Amsterdam.

This role caught my eye as I believe that my skillset matches your requirements. Personally, I am looking to transition back to a full individual contributors’ role, that doesn't require line management, while working again on truly impactful products.

Currently, I am working for Elsevier as Design Lead with a team of 5 designers. My most recent task was to build the design team for a business unit, which involved establishing processes, contribution to design systems, connecting teams, build relationships while still performing systems thinking.

My overall experience spans across a variety of industries (finance, consumer, education, telecoms, research) working on end-user systems across multiple platforms (mac, web, iOS, Android), form factors and internal systems for example HR processes, software tooling. Internal systems are the backbone of every business and therefore crucial in its success.

Within Elsevier I designed an internal tool with Data Scientist to run experiments with users, including test distribution, user feedback recording and data export. At Just Eat I worked with platform engineers on the internal pipeline orchestration and rollout tools. Doing contextual inquiry across engineering departments to come up with subtle but effective interface changes, that improved user satisfaction.

At Just Eat I was hired to build Orderpad, a high-volume transaction terminal, that connects the JE platform, end users and restaurants. This experience allowed me to design for tech savvy/non-savvy/impaired/illiterate users while testing constantly new concepts in form of false doors or simple multi-page experiences in HTML & CSS. Plenty of Orderpad features have been developed with this approach and became core functionality.

While the nature of my job focusses strongly on the user, I have started to work much more closely on team composition and business stakeholder management in the past 3 years. In order to move projects in a large company it needs the buy in from many stakeholders. This is only possible if you can inspire them with a compelling story. A compelling story can be derived from systems analysis and user needs. 

At this point I’d like to get out, create and deliver value in shorter time frames. Understand our users better but remain candid to challenge preconceptions. I am looking forward to meeting you to discuss this role further and show you examples of my work.

Kind regards,
Sebastian Wachholz

PS: My last heavy GitHub usage was in March 2020 while working with a group of designers and developers on the interface of the Dutch 'coronamelder' app. https://github.com/waik
